<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
			<p>A surprise awaited him when he came to the Charlton. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFloyd had gone‚ÅÝ‚Äînobody knew whither. Her husband had followed her some time afterwards, and neither had returned. Somebody had called her on the telephone, but had left no name.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know all about her husband not returning,‚Äù said Craig. ‚ÄúBut haven‚Äôt you the slightest idea where the lady is?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The negative reply was uncompromising.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHer father hasn‚Äôt been here?‚Äù</p>
			<p>His informant hesitated.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir; he was on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFloyd‚Äôs floor when she was missing‚ÅÝ‚Äîin fact, when Major Floyd was down here making inquiries. The floor waiter recognised him, but did not see him come or go.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Calling up the house at Horsham he learnt, what he already knew, that Peter was away from home. Barney, who answered him, had heard nothing of the girl; indeed, this was the first intimation he had had that all was not well. And a further disappointment lay in store for him. The detective he had sent to find Johnny returned with the news that the quarry had gone. According to the valet, his master had returned and changed in a hurry, and, taking a small suitcase, had gone off to an unknown destination.</p>
			<p>An inquiry late that night elicited the fact that Jeff was still living, but unconscious. The bullet had been extracted, and a hopeful view was taken of the future. His father had arrived early in the evening, and was half mad with anxiety and rage.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd if he isn‚Äôt quite mad by the morning, I shall be surprised,‚Äù said the surgeon. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm going to keep him here and give him a little bromide to ease him down.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPoison him,‚Äù suggested Craig.</p>
			<p>When the old detective was on the point of going home, there arrived a telephone message from the Horsham police, whom he had enlisted to watch Peter‚Äôs house.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝKane and his daughter arrived in separate motorcars at a quarter past twelve,‚Äù was the report. ‚ÄúThey came within a few minutes of one another.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Craig was on the point of getting through to the house, but thought better of it. A fast police car got him to Horsham under the hour, the road being clear and the night a bright one. Lights were burning in Peter‚Äôs snuggery, and it was he himself who, at the sound of the motor wheels, came to the door.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs that?‚Äù he asked, as Craig came up the dark drive, and, at the sound of the detective‚Äôs voice, he came halfway down the drive to meet him. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs wrong, Craig? Anything special?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJeff‚Äôs shot. I suppose you know who Jeff is?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know, to my sorrow,‚Äù said Peter Kane promptly. ‚ÄúShot? How? Where?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe was shot this evening between a quarter to ten and ten o‚Äôclock, at the Highlow Club.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome in. You‚Äôd better not tell my girl‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe‚Äôs had as much as she can bear tonight. Not that I‚Äôm worrying a damn about Jeff Legge. He‚Äôd better die, and die quick, for if I get him‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>He did not finish his sentence, and the detective drew the man‚Äôs arm through his.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, listen, Peter, you‚Äôve got to go very slow on this case, and not talk such a darned lot. You‚Äôre under suspicion too, old man. You were seen in the vicinity of the club.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I was seen in the vicinity of the club,‚Äù repeated Peter, nodding. ‚ÄúI was waiting there‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, I was waiting there for a purpose. I went to the Charlton, but my girl had gone‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI suppose they told you‚ÅÝ‚Äîand then I went on to the Highlow, and saw that infernal Lila‚ÅÝ‚Äîby the way, she‚Äôs one of Jeff‚Äôs women, isn‚Äôt she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo be exact,‚Äù said the other quietly, ‚Äúshe‚Äôs his wife.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Peter Kane stopped dead.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHis wife?‚Äù he whispered. ‚ÄúThank God for that! Thank God for that! I forgive her everything. Though she is a brute‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow a woman could allow‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I can‚Äôt judge her. That graft has always been dirty to me. It is hateful and loathsome. But, thank God she‚Äôs his wife, Craig!‚Äù Then: ‚ÄúWho shot this fellow?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know. I‚Äôm going to pull Johnny for it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>They were in the hall, and Peter Kane spun round, open-mouthed, terror in his eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre going to pull Johnny?‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúDo you know what you‚Äôre saying, Craig? You‚Äôre mad! Johnny didn‚Äôt do it. Johnny was nowhere near‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJohnny was there. And, what is more, Johnny was in the room, either at the moment of the shooting or immediately after. The elevator boy has spoken what‚Äôs in his mind, which isn‚Äôt much, but enough to convict Johnny if this fellow dies.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJohnny there!‚Äù Peter‚Äôs voice did not rise above a whisper.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI tell you frankly, Peter, I thought it was you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Craig was facing him squarely, his keen eyes searching the man‚Äôs pallid face. ‚ÄúWhen I heard you were around, and that you had got to know that this fellow was a fake. Why were you waiting?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt tell you that‚ÅÝ‚Äînot now,‚Äù said the other, after turning the matter over in his mind. ‚ÄúI should have seen Johnny if he was there. I saw this girl Lila, and I was afraid she‚Äôd recognise me. I think she did, too. I went straight on into Shaftesbury Avenue, to a bar I know. I was feeling queer over this‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis discovery of mine. I can prove I was there from a quarter to ten till ten, if you want any proof. Oh, Johnny, Johnny!‚Äù</p>
			<p>All this went on in the hall. Then came a quick patter of footsteps, and Marney appeared in the doorway.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho is it‚ÅÝ‚ÄîJohnny? Oh, it is you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCraig? Has anything happened?‚Äù She looked in alarm from face to face. ‚ÄúNothing has happened to Johnny?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, nothing has happened to Johnny,‚Äù said Craig soothingly. He glanced at Peter. ‚ÄúYou ought to know this, Marney,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI can call you Marney‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôve known you since you were five. Jeff Legge has been shot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He thought she was going to faint, and sprang to catch her, but with an effort of will she recovered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJeff shot?‚Äù she asked shakily. ‚ÄúWho shot him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know. That‚Äôs just what we are trying to discover. Perhaps you can help us. Why did you leave the hotel. Was Johnny with you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She shook her head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI haven‚Äôt seen Johnny,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúbut I owe him‚ÅÝ‚Äîeverything. There was a woman in the hotel.‚Äù She glanced timidly at her father. ‚ÄúI think she was an hotel thief or something of the sort. She was there to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto steal. A big Welsh woman.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA Welsh woman?‚Äù said Craig quickly. ‚ÄúWhat is her name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGwenda Jones. Johnny knew about her, and telephoned her to tell her to take care of me until he could get to me. She got me out of the hotel, and then we walked down the Duke of York steps into the Mall. And then a curious thing happened‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was just telling daddy when you came. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJones‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe‚Äôs such a big woman‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know the lady,‚Äù said Craig.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, she disappeared. She wasn‚Äôt exactly swallowed up by the earth,‚Äù she said with a faint smile, ‚Äúand she didn‚Äôt go without warning. Suddenly she said to me: ‚ÄòI must leave you now, my dear. I don‚Äôt want that man to see me.‚Äô I looked round to find who it was that she was so terribly afraid of, and there seemed to be the most harmless lot of people about. When I turned, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJones was running up the steps. I didn‚Äôt wish to call her back, I felt so ridiculous. And then a man came up to me, a middle-aged man with the saddest face you could imagine. I told you that, daddy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe took his hat off‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis hair was almost white‚ÅÝ‚Äîand asked me if my name was Kane. I didn‚Äôt tell him the other name,‚Äù she said with a shiver. ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòMay I take you to a place of safety, Miss Kane?‚Äô he said. ‚ÄòI don‚Äôt think you ought to be seen with that rawboned female.‚Äô I didn‚Äôt know what to do, I was so frightened, and I was glad of the company and protection of any man, and, when he called a cab, I got in without the slightest hesitation. He was such a gentle soul, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCraig. He talked of nothing but the weather and chickens! I think we talked about chickens all the way to Lewisham.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre you sure it was Lewisham?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was somewhere in that neighbourhood. What other places are there there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNew Cross, Brockley‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù began Craig.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the place‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBrockley. It was the Brockley Road. I saw it printed on the corner of the street. He took me into his house. There was a nice, motherly old woman whom he introduced to me as his housekeeper.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd what did he talk about?‚Äù asked the fascinated Craig.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúChickens,‚Äù she said solemnly. ‚ÄúDo you know what chickens lay the best eggs? I‚Äôm sure you don‚Äôt. Do you know the best breed for England and the best for America? Do you know the most economical chickens to keep? I do! I wondered what he was going to do with me. I tried to ask him, but he invariably turned me back to the question of incubators and patent feeds, and the cubic space that a sitting hen requires as compared with an ordinary hen. It was the quaintest, most fantastic experience. It seems now almost like one of Alice‚Äôs dreams! Then, at ten o‚Äôclock, I found a motorcar had come for me. ‚ÄòI‚Äôm sending you home, young lady,‚Äô he said.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWere you with him all the time, by the way?‚Äù asked Craig.</p>
			<p>She shook her head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, some part of the time I was with his housekeeper, who didn‚Äôt even talk about chickens, but knitted large and shapeless jumpers, and sniffed. That was when he was telephoning. I knew he was telephoning because I could hear the drone of his voice.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe didn‚Äôt bring you back?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, he just put me into the car and told me that I should be perfectly safe. I arrived just a few minutes ahead of daddy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The detective scratched his chin, irritated and baffled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs certainly got me,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThe rawboned lady I know, but the chicken gentleman is mysterious. You didn‚Äôt hear his name, by any chance?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She shook her head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you know the number of the house?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she said frankly, ‚Äúbut he particularly asked me to forget it, and I‚Äôve forgotten it.‚Äù Then, in a more serious tone: ‚ÄúIs my‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour nothing,‚Äù interrupted Peter. ‚ÄúThe blackguard was married‚ÅÝ‚Äîmarried to Lila. I think I must have gone daft, but I didn‚Äôt realise this woman was planted in my house for a purpose. That type of girl wouldn‚Äôt come at the wages she did if she had been genuine. Barney was always suspicious of her, by the way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave you seen Johnny?‚Äù the girl asked Craig.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I haven‚Äôt seen him,‚Äù said Craig carefully. ‚ÄúI thought of calling on him pretty soon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Then it came to her in a flash, and she gasped.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt think Johnny shot this man? You can‚Äôt think that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course he didn‚Äôt shoot him,‚Äù said Peter loudly. ‚ÄúIt is a ridiculous idea. But you‚Äôll understand that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCraig has to make inquiries in all sorts of unlikely quarters. You haven‚Äôt been able to get hold of Johnny tonight?‚Äù</p>
			<p>A glance passed between them, and Peter groaned.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat a fool! What a fool!‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúOh, my God, what a fool!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFather, Johnny hasn‚Äôt done this? It isn‚Äôt true, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCraig. Johnny wouldn‚Äôt shoot a man. Did anybody see him? How was he shot?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe was shot in the back.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen it wasn‚Äôt Johnny,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúHe couldn‚Äôt shoot a man in the back!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think, young lady,‚Äù said Craig with a little smile, ‚Äúthat you‚Äôd better go to bed and dream about butterflies. You‚Äôve had a perfect hell of a day, if you‚Äôll excuse my language. Say the firm word to her, Peter. Who‚Äôs that?‚Äù He turned his head, listening.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBarney,‚Äù said Peter. ‚ÄúHe has a distressing habit of wearing slippers. You can hear him miles away. He‚Äôs opening the door to somebody‚ÅÝ‚Äîone of your people, perhaps. Or he‚Äôs taking your chauffeur a drink. Barney has an enormous admiration for chauffeurs. They represent mechanical genius to him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The girl was calmer now.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have too much to thank God for today, for this terrible thing to be true,‚Äù she said in a low voice. ‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCraig, there is a mistake, I‚Äôm sure. Johnny couldn‚Äôt have committed such a crime. It was somebody else‚ÅÝ‚Äîone of Jeffrey Legge‚Äôs associates, somebody who hated him. He told me once that lots of people hated him, and I thought he was joking; he seemed so nice, so considerate. Daddy, I was mad to go through that, even to make you happy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Peter Kane nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you were mad, I was criminal, girlie,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThere was only one man in the world for you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>The door opened slowly, and Barney sidled in.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJohnny to see you folks,‚Äù he said, and pulled the door wider.</p>
			<p>John Gray was standing in the passage, and his eyes fell upon Craig with a look of quiet amusement.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
